In this video, we're going
to get more familiar with
the Query Editor and apply
a range of transformations.
Some of them revision
and some of them new.
Last week, the focus was
very much on getting data
from a variety of
different sources
and integrating that data.
This week, the focus will more be
on transforming and
cleaning our data.
We're still helping out
in the HR department.
Our first challenge
this week is to help
produce reports for the
course evaluations.
Currently, the evaluations
come in, in this format,
but we need to produce
a nice summary report showing
what the feedback was like.
That summary report needs
to look more like this.
This involves a lot of
manual manipulation of
the data and it has to be
done for every single course.
So we're looking for a
more automated solution
and that's what Power
Query will give us.
If you haven't already,
please open up the 321
applying transformations
with book.
The first thing we're
going to need to
do is get our data.
So come to your data
ribbon, in 2016,
we're looking for the
New Query button,
but we're going to come to
Get Data from File
and from Workbook.
If you get a
compatibility warning,
don't worry, just click "Close."
Now navigate to where you
downloaded your
workbooks and you're
looking for Course
Evaluations, MS project.
Make sure its MS Project,
and then double-click or import.
The navigator will
show you that there's
one sheet in the workbook,
that's the one we want.
So click "Evals" and then
come down to edit
or Transform Data.
Click the button to open
up your Query Editor.
We've already spent
a little bit of
time in the Query Editor.
But I'd just like to
point out that as well
as all the tools on the ribbon,
if you come to one of the
columns and right-click,
you get a contextual menu that
gives you a lot of tools as well.
On the right-hand side
is our query settings.
You can change the
name of your query in
the properties and
as we make changes,
each change is applied
as a step which
we can then navigate
through and modify.
In the newer version, Power Query
is trying to get
a little bit more
intelligent and you'll see it has
added a few additional
steps for me.
You'll see a lot of
these changed types,
which is where it automatically
change the datatype.
But these can be
really problematic.
Actually, I'd encourage
you to remove them and add
your own changes to
data types towards the
end of the process.
I'm actually going to remove
that change type by
clicking on the cross.
The other thing that's happened
is it's automatically taken
the first row and promoted
it to be my column headings.
Now again, that is not correct.
So I'm going to remove
that step as well.
Now whichever version you're in,
we should be at about
the same place.
The first thing I need
to do is to remove
the first six rows
because they're
not actually part of the data.
We're going to do this by
coming to our Home ribbon,
finding the Remove Rows button
and clicking "Remove Top Rows."
There are six rows
we want to remove,
so I'm going to type six
and press "OK." We now
have the actual column headings
sitting in our top row.
So we can now promote those to be
our headers and we
do that by coming to
the Home ribbon and selecting
"Use First Row as Headers."
We need the course name to repeat
down and we need
the evaluation number
to actually repeat up.
While the Home tab has a lot
of tools for doing
transformations,
it doesn't have all of them.
So if you can't see
the tool you want,
try coming to the Transform tab
and the tool we're looking
for here is the Fill.
So make sure you've
got course selected,
come to Fill, I'm going
to choose "Fill, Down."
Then for the evaluation
number column,
we're going to choose
"Fill" and "Up."
We still have a lot of
rows that don't actually
contain data and we'd
like to get rid of those.
What you need to do is look for
a consistent pattern
and the pattern here,
if you look at Questions,
for example, there are
a whole bunch of nulls,
we want to get rid of those.
You'll also notice
that the headings for
the other evaluations
are being repeated.
So where we see the
word questions,
we also want to remove it.
We can do that by simply
filtering them out.
So coming to our
questions column,
I'm going to click the drop-down.
We can unselect null and
unselect questions and click
"OK." The data is now
looking much better,
but we still have
a small problem.
If you scroll down to the bottom,
you'll see that the evals 1039
and 1040 have been duplicated.
Fortunately, it's also very
easy to remove duplicates.
To do this, we're going to
come back to the Home tab.
If you're working in 2016,
you'll actually notice
a button directly on
the ribbon that will allow
you to remove duplicates.
In the newer versions, however,
it's actually been tucked
behind the Remove Rows button.
Now before we can actually
remove the duplicates,
we have to identify the columns
that we wanted to
check are duplicated.
In this case, it's
all of the columns.
But here's a great
little keyboard shortcut
that translates from Excel.
If you click somewhere
into your grid and
then press "Control
A" to select all,
it highlights all the columns.
Now we're going to remove
our duplicates either
click the "Remove Duplicates"
button on the ribbon
or come to remove
rows and we're going
to say, "Remove Duplicates."
All fixed. One last thing,
we would like to sort the data by
question number and
then evaluation number.
So I'm going to start
by coming to questions.
Click my drop down and
say "Sort Ascending."
You'll see that it sorted
the entire dataset.
Now in Excel, if I were to now
come and sort by
evaluation number,
I would lose my
sort on questions.
But here we see the Query Editor
behaves quite differently.
If we click eval
number and choose,
"Sort Ascending", it
retains the initial sort.
You can see that's got a one
and it adds a sort within it,
which is sort level two.
So you can have multi-sort
levels just by using your
autofill for buttons.
Really cool. All right,
that's looking great.
We're ready to close and load.
So back to the drop-down,
"Close and Load to," we
want to load it into
the existing worksheet
and we're going to click
"OK." That is looking
so much better.
But it's not a 100 percent yet.
The way the data is laid out,
the ratings are shown
as column headings
rather than as values
within a single column.
This is going to
make it still quite
tricky to do the analysis.
But that's your challenge.
Using this data and
conventional Excel tools,
I'd like you to try and
create a chart that shows
the average rating for
the three questions
about trainers.
In the next video,
I'll show you how to do it really
quickly using Power Query.